### 4.3. The Role of Merge Reviews

While software engineering may lack formal mentoring like other engineering disciplines, the merge review (or pull request review) process serves as a crucial point for guidance, and validation. There are far-reaching benefits to this process. For security, this is where securable code review can scale effectively. It acts as an agile training ground where developers learn from peers and receive feedback in a constructive environment. SSEM attributes can provide a concrete basis for these reviews.

The teams should be careful to avoid introducing unnecessary complexity or friction into the review process. This means the team uses the merge review as guardrails, not as a gate. The goal is to grow the FIASSE mindset within the team, to create a positive experience for the developers.

Code review through merge requests is the single most effective technique for identifying security vulnerabilities early in the development process [OWASP-CRG]. While automated scans can find common or known issues, they often have no way of understanding the context of the change or the architecture of the system. However, the team can quickly identify areas of code that may require more in-depth review through automated scans. Bringing human insight and expertise into the review process ensures that code is less likely to need to be revisited later for quality or security issues.

The collaborative nature of merge reviews allows for the sharing of insight and expertise; they provide a fresh perspective to programmers who may have become too familiar with the code. When FIASSE-trained application security professionals participate, they share valuable insights and expertise with software engineering teams. Over time, this can elevate the overall capability of the team to understand the implications of SSEM attributes, fostering an appreciation for the desired securable results.

It should be noted that teams implementing structured reviews report up to 80% fewer post-release bugs [CodeReviewBenefits].

Merge reviews can also be used as an opportunity to ask 'What can go wrong?' to use threat modeling principles to examine code-level issues that could threaten Trustworthiness and Reliability. The simplified scope of a merge review helps to put aside the complexity of a larger system. This sort of targeted approach can make it easier to identify potential risks and vulnerabilities.

In the future, guidance for merge reviews will explore how to effectively integrate SSEM attributes into the review process in detail. It is essential for security professionals to be instructed on how to effectively participate in these reviews, providing value without ignoring basic software engineering principles.
