### 6.3. The Flexibility Principle

A key concept taken from threat modeling is the identification of **trust boundaries**. These are points in the system where data passes between entities with different levels of trust (e.g., user to application, application to database, service to service). Trust boundaries require heightened control over data and process execution. This concept should be allowed to influence implementation best practices, such as strict input handling. This is discussed further in Section 6.4.1.

Software engineers value flexibility in code, as it can facilitate feature implementation and bug fixing. Attackers, however, seek uncontrolled flexibility as a means to force the application to deviate from intended behavior.

The issue is not flexibility itself, but the exposure of the flexibility through careless handling of trust boundaries. An example of uncontrolled flexibility might be a function capable of executing arbitrary query statements with arbitrary bind parameters without restriction. Control is essential to ensure trustworthy execution, maintain system Integrity, and support Fault Tolerance. While flexibility is necessary for Maintainability.

To enhance security, minimize what is trusted and harden the trust boundaries. Think of trust boundaries like the hard shell of a turtle: the soft, flexible interior represents the bulk of the application's logic. While the hard shell represents the critical points where external data or untrusted operations are carefully controlled so as not to make a sticky mess. Just as the turtle's shell protects its interior from attack, well-handled trust boundaries protect the core application from potentially harmful external influences. Defining and communicating these boundaries during the design phase makes it clear which areas of code are responsible for tight control, allowing developers to focus their efforts on maintaining the integrity and trustworthiness of these critical interfaces. Data Flow Diagrams are invaluable in identifying these boundaries

One way to allow flexibility while maintaining control is by implementing strict input handling at the trust boundaries. The trust boundary entry point allows the input handling to adapt to the context the value is arriving from. The advantage of this is that it allows the developer to focus on the flexibility of the code without worrying about unexpected input causing unintended behavior. This unexpected behavior could be simple bugs or serious security vulnerabilities. This is covered further in Section 6.4.1.
