### 7.0. Security's Role

Security Assurance takes joint responsibility pertaining to the timely delivery of the end result. This ensures the focus of Software Engineers remains on building securable code through a self-governed process that has verified outcomes. Security should provide guidance through participation in development activities like design and requirements gathering. This establishes the guardrails for development to operate as intended. Admittedly, AppSec is not responsible for development's level of adherence to the architecture of the system or feature requirements. Thankfully standard Quality Assurance and User Acceptance processes are in place to ensure that the end result meets the expectations of the business and its users.

Therefore security metrics (those derived from Application Security Testing tools and pentests) are a measure of the effective partnership of security with development, this is not a measure of Software Engineering's adherence to security. The overall security posture of an application reflects how well expectations are set, how well programmers apply best practices and if product allows items to be worked. This is a key distinction that allows security to focus on providing value through requirements, design, and assurance rather than policing or micromanaging development teams looking for line-level fixes.

Low adherence to requirements will also be reflected by results in other types of testing as well. Remember, application security will never outperform quality assurance because quality is a foundation for securable software.

If the posture stays stagnant over time, adjustments to development culture and/or leadership may be necessary. AppSec can encourage culture change by promoting FIASSE and sponsoring activities including continued education. It can be difficult to accept the limits of AppSec's influence, but it is essential to recognize that the responsibility for balancing business value creation with security needs ultimately lies with the development team as a whole.

By spending valuable time in design activities, AppSec can guide a larger number of developers who adhere to the principles of FIASSE. It will also foster a culture of shared responsibility for security, where developers are empowered to take ownership of their code while having the support and guidance of AppSec professionals following established software engineering practices.
