### 7.2. Guiding Developing Software Engineers

Software engineers who are still gaining experience (also known as Jr Programmers, Artisan, or Ancillary Coders) benefit greatly from mental models like SSEM and the methodologies FIASSE describes. They may sometimes struggle to intuitively know "What can go wrong?" but can learn through structured guidance, merge reviews, and pair programming. While following established best practices is a good start, it is important to emphasize the Software Engineering discipline and how the attributes of the SSEM benefit both the programmer and security posture of the system. FIASSE provides the context for why certain practices are important, helping software engineers build a more robust engineering intuition. It helps them build their taste and smell for good and bad code.

These engineers should be encouraged to:

- Focus on becoming strong software engineers.
- Ask for clear Requirements and Acceptance Criteria.
- Be cautious about introducing new external dependencies without due diligence.
- Actively seek code reviews from senior team members to learn and build confidence.
- Write unit tests that cover exceptional conditions and out-of-bounds values.
- Learn and apply defensive coding techniques, particularly input validation and output encoding.
- Be mindful of trust boundaries in the code they write and seek to deeply understand the architecture.
- Seek understanding of FIASSE and SSEM to learn how fundamental principles affect outcomes.
